- Hey, Jimmy.
- Hey, Michael, how are you doing?
- I'm doing well.
Welcome to Talk Python to Me.
It's fantastic to have you here.
- Thank you, I'm really excited.
- Yeah, I am too.
I saw DropBase, I saw what you all are building.
I'm like, that is pretty darn interesting.
I think people will want to check it out.
So we'll dive into this app and this platform
that you made for app building, basically.
And we'll have a lot of fun.
Now, we're gonna go ahead and get started.
Now, before we get into that, though,
just give us a quick bit of background on yourself.
How'd you get into programming?
How'd you find yourself writing a Python building platform?
- Awesome, yeah, I went to school for engineering.
This was actually back in Canada.
I studied in Montreal at a little school
called McGill University.
- Nice.
- And so we started then.
I used to intern, by the way,
at this company called Research in Motion
that used to make BlackBerries way back in the time.
- Oh, yeah, awesome.
In the heyday?
- In the heyday, yeah.
I remember when they said we had 50%
of the US smartphone market share.
But the platform was actually built on Java, not Python.
Python was something afterwards.
Actually, my co-founder is the Python programmer,
and I picked up Python after we started working together.
- Yeah, cool.
You got any fun stories from your time at BlackBerry?
Did you enjoy it?
How long were you there?
- I was there as an intern only.
Spent about 16 to 20 months of internships.
- Yeah.
- At the time, I was, I think, in my third year of school.
And we were just working on these little Java apps
for the smartphones,
and just making sure everything was working.
The cool thing is when you work at a company
that's making devices,
devices have a very long development cycle.
So imagine, for example, you worked at Apple today.
Like the iPhone, what, 15, whichever one's coming next,
they've been working on it for at least a year.
- Yeah. - Probably longer.
So you get access to all these prototypes
that you get to use,
'cause you're building for it, you're testing it.
So that was a really nice, nice, nice thing.
But you actually couldn't tell anybody about it.
But it was really cool to know that you were
on the last thing.
- And you couldn't lose it in a bar,
or anything like that, right? - Oh, absolutely not.
You remember those stories, right?
- Yes, exactly.
- I've heard that story a few times.
- Somebody got a hold of a lost phone,
and it was sold, and there was all sorts of drama.
It was a big deal.
- Oh, yeah.
- That was around iPhone four, three, four, five,
sort of timeframe.
- That's right, yeah.
I remember that very clearly.
- Yeah. - That was a whole drama.
- So you didn't wanna be that.
You wanted to make sure you hung on to it.
- Oh, yeah, no, you get that, yeah.
- Yeah, I think working for a company like that
would have been awesome, at least in the heyday.
It's cool to work for a tech company
that's got a lot of wind that it's back,
and a lot of people using it.
It's kinda neat.
- It was very fun.
I was very happy.
We had a lot of other interns that they hired at the time.
So you just had a blast working there over the summers.
- Yeah, a lot of excited people to do stuff.
Excellent.
Cool, and so then you picked up Python,
I guess, when you started this project.
Is that right?
- Just a little bit before.
So when we started our startup, this was back in 2020.
My co-founder had been using Python.
He did a master's degree, computer science,
focused on machine learning, actually.
And so in that field,
Python is really the main language you use.
- Yeah, it is.
- And so he was very familiar with it.
And so he set our stack, basically, to be a Python backend.
And then just through that process,
just looking at things and designing features,
we just all got involved with Python.
So it kinda just became the same.
And this is actually the reason why we're working
on a Python builder,
is we're kinda building a product for ourselves.
It's something where it fits our own needs,
that works with our mental models.
So that's pretty much it.
So today, I spent a lot of time building apps
with Dropbase, so internal tools.
And that's most of the app building I do now.
So building demos, testing the product,
making sure everything is working,
and then just finding other ways
to make the developer experience more convenient.
- It seems like something you could really take care
of a bunch of internal automation type of apps.
You don't have to create full-on web apps
to secretize this data or to get that dashboard
or whatever, right?
You just fire up your own platform
and point at your data sources.
- That's right, yeah.
So the big difference with other frameworks, right,
is that you're gonna use these frameworks
to build your customer-facing applications.
And customers have very high expectations
about what they need.
Interactions sometimes make a big difference for them,
UI components, the way models come up.
It's all part of the experience.
And so for that, you really need
a lot of extra components complexity.
- Yeah.
- For internal tools, it's not to say
that internal users don't have high expectations,
but the kinds of things that you do with those tools
tend to be very, very similar.
You search for data, you get context about that.
So for example, you search for a transaction or for a user,
you get some more context to make sure
that that's the user or the transaction
that you want to act on.
And then you just act on it, right?
Like you trigger an action on that item
or that resource or that person.
And so it helps you simplify the kind of things you need.
And so for that, having a framework,
a builder to make this happen is super convenient.
- So the subtitle catchphrase of DropBase
is build internal web apps with just Python,
which is awesome.
And when I think of internal web apps,
or even traditionally, if you look back a ways,
there was VB6 and Windows Forms
and those types of things
that were kind of playing the same role.
So same basic idea.
There was a lot of people who refer to that
as forms over data.
It kind of the, not quite a negative term,
but kind of like we're sort of doing
the same basic architecture over and over,
but it's a different problem every time.
And so we kind of got to write code,
create these projects from scratch every time,
but they're the same kind of thing.
And so, I think that's partly why VB6
with its kind of visual drag and dropy experience
became real popular
'cause you could drag a table on there,
drag a data source, bind it to that,
make a button click when somebody touches this thing.
And that didn't create something that would rival,
say, airbnb.com,
or where you have these really dynamic design sites,
but that's not what they need.
The company says, "Look, we need, this week,
I need our sales people to be able to answer this question
and make this change."
That's what we need you to build this week.
And if it's from scratch every time,
that's a ton of rework.
- Absolutely, it's a lot of work.
It's funny you mentioned the forms over data.
It is true that a lot of the,
well, if you take it at a very high level,
all apps are forms over data.
Or all SaaS apps are forms over a database in some sense.
And then you start hearing also about the similar things
with, you've heard about the GPT wrappers, right?
It's the same concept where it's like an oversimplification
of what's happening,
but at the same time, it is kind of core to what's happening
and for internal tooling at least,
is exactly what you need, forms over data, but very quickly.
So that developers don't have to spend a lot of time
basically doing the same things over and over again.
You wanna make their lives easier
to support their internal users.
So people in customer support and operations.
And I think sometimes even supporting
other engineers as well.
- Yeah, and it's not that people in companies
don't have expectations of nice apps and nice interactions.
It's just that it's more utilitarian.
So many of these big enterprises,
when you kind of think of them,
maybe the right way to think of them is
there's a massive Postgres
or Microsoft SQL Server at the center.
And it almost connects the business divisions
like the sales team and the marketing team
and the product team and all that.
And if you can get into the database and answer questions,
expose data, expose relationships,
put a UI to some aspect of that,
you're really right at the heart of the company
in some sense.
- Yeah, it's definitely about effectiveness.
So one way we think about
what these kinds of tools should do,
is you have to enable developers
to very quickly build apps that have maximal value,
that lets you get the job done as effectively as possible,
but also that's easy to use for the end user.
So, if it's like a business operator
or someone in the operations team,
they also need to be able to learn quickly
how to use it and trigger actions.
And so we call that sort of effectiveness of the apps,
some sort of like effectiveness score.
And it just combines these components.
And that's really the,
like if you can get to the essence of it
and create a framework or a tool builder
that maximizes for that,
I think you're in a really good place.
It is something we're trying to do with DropBase.
The components are simple.
The kinds of apps that you can build look roughly the same,
but they look really nice.
And they're also quite simple to understand.
They're modeled after spreadsheets in a way,
where you have sort of data, a grid or table in the middle,
and then there's a sidebar
from where you can trigger actions.
And this ties back to this concept of,
when you ask people in operations,
what they do, like sales, marketing, business operations,
essentially ties back to the previous comments,
which was you search for something,
you get context about it and you trigger action.
And so the way we translated that insight
about what people just end up doing over and over again,
we said, well, then you really just need
some sort of search bar,
you need a grid and you need a sidebar
with some buttons or some other dropdowns
and other components.
And then you realize, okay,
this is kind of what spreadsheets
have been trying to do for a long time.
- Yeah, that's true.
- But it's exactly--
- People do like oddly connect,
yeah, people do oddly connect Excel
to like external data sources
and all sorts of weird things as well.
Yeah.
Or write EDA that makes some change.
They probably should just not be doing that.
- Yeah, there's a lot of, it's actually a big use case.
On our previous product, we actually did exactly that.
- Okay.
- So we let you connect any database source
to your Google Sheets
and just kind of run that on a schedule, right?
So you'd imagine in a business setting,
you have sort of these like weekly, daily reports
that analysts end up working on, right?
And what you want is for the data to be fresh, up to date.
And so people just wanted a way to,
at 7 a.m., 8 a.m. on Monday morning,
basically automatically pull data from a database,
load it up to your spreadsheet,
and then all your tables and calculations,
which is sort of update,
because they're referencing a tab,
a sheet basically that has fresh data.
And that helps people solve problems.
And so it was very interesting,
the evolution of all these tools.
- Yeah, it is really interesting.
Maybe one of the big differences is the interactivity here
versus what you might do in that story, right?
- That's right.
So that's read-only, really.
And then here, what we're doing is letting you
trigger actions, perform actions,
basically outside the app.
So you might call an API,
or you might trigger an internal endpoint,
or just some triggers matching in the UI.
- Yeah.
So I think we'll get to this more later,
but I wanna maybe touch on it
since there's a good question,
and also it might be a question a lot of people have.
So what's the pricing model for this, right?
Basically, more broadly,
what is the business model around here?
Luis says, "Already amazed by it.
"Would like to compare it."
First thought, there's nothing like this available
in open source, so very neat.
Yeah. - Yeah.
So interesting.
So the business model is we're gonna sell the product
on a per user per month basis.
So it's a B2B SaaS app product.
Now, developers need to be able to play around with products
before they can decide whether that's something they want.
And so we have a sort of a free version of the products
that you can set up locally, like in your own machine,
or you can just put it up on an EC2,
and you can just build apps for yourself.
Like if you wanna automate personal tasks,
you can totally use this for it.
And then the way that we, in a way, layer the pricing
is like if you need very complex permission systems,
so like you build an app and you want it accessible
by this person, by person A, but not person B,
then you'll need very granular permission systems.
And so that's an indicator that you're probably
like a corporate user, you're a business user.
And so we do the pricing based on that.
- Cool, yeah.
So there's an open, the source is open, at least.
People can go and check it out, right?
Is that true? - Let me clarify that.
So you can self-host it. - Yes.
- And you can look at the repo.
Behind the scenes, it's a Docker image that you set.
So the code for DropBase is not immediately,
you can't just browse it through the file system,
but the code is basically sitting in your machine
when you set this up locally.
Now, the difference here is if you look at the directory,
where you have the workspace.
So the workspace directory is where all of your apps
all your apps files would be generated as you build the apps.
- Okay. - And so that's really nice
because you can essentially version control this
from day one, you can build apps,
you can check it in GitHub,
and then you can just keep your code, you can version it.
And so it's really, it's open source, it's clarified that,
but you can self-host it.
- Okay, so yeah, right.
So you've got, it's on GitHub,
but the licensing is really not like just straight up
GPL open source type of thing, right?
- That's correct, yes.
- And what are the-- - And it's on GitHub
because you need to clone, you do need to clone the repo
and then you need to set it up and install it.
- Yeah, yeah.
Yeah, so the free tier doesn't allow self-hosting,
but if you pay for some, one of the versions,
then it does have a self-hosting option.
So when you, just to wrap this up on the price,
when you say it's $10 per user per month,
is that per person that makes the project,
that builds the apps,
or is that per person that interacts with the web app?
- So this is currently per member of your workspace.
So we're not yet differentiating between someone
who is building the app or using the app,
although that might be something
that we'll have to add later on.
- Sure, so if you had say four salespeople
and one developer, in quotes maybe,
developer, that would be five users under this story.
- Correct.
- Okay. - Under the current pricing,
yes. - Yes, yeah, yeah, okay.
Cool.
And I do, even if it's not just pure open source,
take it and run with it,
I do like the self-hosting aspect of it
because if you've got private data,
or maybe even more important than any of that,
is I wanna connect it to data sources that are,
I don't wanna give your cloud access
to my company database, for example.
- That's right.
I can expand on that actually.
So we did this-- - Yeah, go ahead.
- Specifically with that comment in mind, in a sense.
So when you're using internal tools,
it's very, well, let's say it's almost all the cases,
you are interacting with production,
at least one production database, right?
Like if you're supporting customers
and you're issuing them a refund,
you don't do that in tests
and then take it to staging and then deploy it, right?
You basically, you act on it on your production data.
And so we thought, okay,
people are probably going to be very hesitant
to basically say, let me load up all my creds,
all my API keys into some new player, a new cloud,
and then like hope for the best, right?
So when we designed DropBase,
we call it the worker or the worker's server.
The way you connect to data sources
is you basically go to your .env file
and you just add your database creds.
That env file sits in the same directory
that that workspace directory sits,
the one that we saw on GitHub.
And that's completely on your side
and that's in your VPC or in your local machine.
And the same server is the one that triggers the task
to query your database.
So, and that's also sitting on your side in your machine.
And so the entire part of the product that processes,
queries, touches your data, your data sources,
your credentials, that's completely on the user side.
And the only part that we manage
is really just the permission system.
So that controlling the workspace
and controlling the app permissions,
that's the layer that we control.
And that's really like the part
where we can do the pricing on to begin with.
Like that's the feature set thing that helps us say,
okay, this is gonna be paid customers
and these are gonna be developers
who are just gonna learn how to code in Python
or just wanna build little apps
for their own personal use.
- Yeah.
All right, that makes sense.
You know, let's maybe talk through an example.
If you go to dropbase.io, there's a,
right at the top, there's a sort of tutorial
or a demo video of you using it.
I think, obviously I don't wanna just play the video,
but maybe just talk us through the steps
of what this app is and what are the steps to build it.
And just for people who are listening
and haven't watched that video,
maybe I think it's 12 minutes long
and you're like, let's create a new project.
And here it is published at the end, right?
Which is really nice.
So yeah, talk us through.
- Sure, yeah.
Okay, so I'm gonna try to recreate the exact same one
that you have on the screen, right?
So it looks like an app that has two tables
and you can somehow perform an action
with a button on the sidebar.
So basically it just notifies,
either notifies a user or it performs some sort of--
- I think what this one does is it has workspaces
and then users are in a workspace
and you can make them admins or not admins
of that workspace. - Okay, gotcha.
- Is the one, is that-- - Gotcha.
- Does that help? - Perfect, okay.
Yeah, okay.
So, okay, so I'll describe how you build this app.
So you go to our app studio
and it's gonna be a blank canvas.
In that canvas, you can add tables.
So the first thing you do is you add table one,
you add the first table,
and then you would add table two,
which is the second table.
And then you add a widget, so on the sidebar.
So you just click on add button
and then it just places a button on the screen for you.
So that would be sort of a shell of the application.
It'll be just the UI part.
At this point, it's just a few mouse clicks.
There's no JavaScript code
or Python code that you're writing.
The next step is to add the sort of the logic
behind the scenes.
The first thing we need to do is to populate the first table
with data about your workspaces.
And essentially what we do is you click on create new,
you create a new function.
And in that function, it could be a SQL function
or a Python function.
Because that's just a table,
you can just create a new SQL function.
So you do create a new function,
select everything from workspaces,
let's say that's the table.
And then you can see a little preview
of what that select statement will result in.
So you can verify that that's the data that you wanna show.
Once you've done that, you just save that file, that query,
and you do something we call binding.
So in the UI, you can select table one
and it'll present you with the tables properties.
And one of the properties is which SQL file,
which SQL script it's bound to.
So you just click bind to the SQL file that you just wrote,
and then it just automatically populates it
with data for your workspace.
Now, the second table is a little bit more interesting
because the second table will update
depending on what row you've selected in the first table.
So when you click on a workspace in the first table,
it should load all of the users
that are part of a particular workspace.
And so we do this, we have a feature called dependent tables
and that's exactly what it does.
So for the second table, you still write a SQL query
and the query would just say, select everything from users
where the workspace ID is the selected row works as ID
from the first table.
And we use that sort of a ginger,
I'm not sure maybe the audience will be familiar with ginger.
It's sort of like ginger templating style
where you say select everything from users
where workspace ID is double curly brace.
And then we have something called state.
State basically gives you the state of the UI
at any point in time when you click something.
And it's really related to class
so you can say state.tables.table1.workspaceID.
And then we resolve that into the value
that's the workspace ID from the first table.
And then you do the same thing, you save that SQL query,
you bind it to the second table
and then we automatically infer that
whenever you select a different row in the first table,
the second table will update the workspace ID value,
rerun the query and then show you the data for it.
- Yeah, that's cool.
I was wondering how that happened.
I thought you must have to wire some on change event,
clicks over here, then it triggers that,
but you just have that all automatic, right?
- That's right, yeah.
So the UI actually knows that which tables are related.
So the UI sends a payload to the backend saying,
this table was clicked and this other table
is related to it.
And so we kind of know that we need to process those again.
And so that's how we do this dependent table.
For getting the value of the workspace ID
in the first table, we basically,
we resolve the sort of the variables in the backend
and then pass the value
so that we can update the query.
So let's say that you stop at that point, right?
And then you just say, preview the app.
The app would look like two tables
where it's really just lets you see all the users
for each workspace that you have in your database.
And then a few more things to make that very useful
is you might want to search for a workspace
before you know who to support.
So let's say each workspace is associated
with one of your customers.
So let's say company A is your customer
and company A gives you a call, a support call and says,
hey, can you make John in our company an admin?
So the first thing you want to do is you want to find,
you search for company A and then find John.
So we have this nice feature that basically
automatically creates searches for you.
So let's say in the first table,
you can click on a button to convert it to a smart table.
And when you do that, we basically generate filters for you.
So you can then just say, I'd like to search by company name
and you can select the filter
and you can pin the filter into the table
and that automatically performs a search for you.
I say it's just pretty neat that way.
- It is, it reminds me a little bit of Notion,
Notion tables.
I don't know if you play with Notion any.
- Yes, yes.
- Yeah, you've got those pin sorts and those pin filters
and different things you can kind of put at the top of the,
I guess their databases are called in Notion.
A little like that.
- Actually, it's very similar to that
in the sense that you're not writing any code
to be able to search through tables,
but you can still modify what you let people search
by pinning certain filters.
Now, the really interesting thing that we've done here
is that we let you do joins.
And still provides you that feature.
So in Notion, for example, you would just have one database
and you can filter and sort that database.
With DropBase, what we have is,
let's say you have a table called users
and a table called roles.
And then they're related by an ID where,
let's say ID one is users, ID two is developers,
ID three is admins.
You might have to join those two tables first.
And so that same smart table feature,
you can just write that SQL statement,
like join statements,
and we can still generate sort of the right filters for you.
And we'll actually let you edit those tables as well.
So what we do is we take your SQL statement
and then we infer all the SQL required to search
or edit any column within the SQL statement.
- Yeah, that sounds awesome.
- Yeah, that's really neat feature,
especially for the people who are used to
using something like Django admin,
in the sense that it helps you very quickly
build an admin panel with very little developer work.
- Yeah, that's true.
- Essentially, you can just write a SQL statement
and then we give you an admin panel.
- Yeah.
- And so that's really neat.
The final thing with the app here in the demo
is the little button on the right side.
- Yeah.
- So that is a Python function.
So you create a new Python function
and you essentially say,
you essentially write a database update
to update the role from whatever it was,
let's say from developer to an admin.
So it's just really a select statement,
update table, set column, something on this particular ID.
And so that's just a Python function.
And the final thing is just to connect that button
to run this Python function.
So you click on the button, we run the function
and then we perform a database update
to update the role to whichever role you want.
And that really is just the gist of the demo.
- Yeah.
So a couple of things about that Python function
that's pretty interesting.
When you create it, you can say,
I wanna create a function and it says,
do you want SQL or do you want Python?
Which is pretty interesting.
The Python function has access to the UI widgets.
I could in the actual video,
not the screenshot of the video,
I think you've got a dropdown select box.
And so the Python function go,
well, what did the user select?
And then we'll make the change to the person
in the workspace along those lines.
So that's pretty cool, right?
That you interact with this UI
in kind of a object oriented way, I suppose.
- That's right.
Yeah.
So that's exactly how it works.
So behind the scenes, we have two classes.
One is called state and one is called a context.
So the state class just lets us access
all of the UI state at any point in time.
So anything you enter in an input component
or a row you select in the tables,
you can see the currently selected values of it.
And so whenever you click on a button
or you perform an action,
that state is passed to the backend,
just as a payload, just like a dictionary.
And the backend, we generate all the classes,
all the objects related to state and context.
So we just have to pass the values in
and then execute the function
with those values as the input.
And so that's how we're able to do
the state thing with Python.
And if you've seen how you would do it in Python,
it is very much a dot notation, right?
So you would say, to get the value of column one
in table one, you basically just say,
state dot tables, which gives you all the tables,
dot table one, dot column one.
And that basically resolves into the value
of the table, of the row in that table for that column.
- Yeah, that's cool.
I can imagine the implementation of that thing.
It's like dot a dunder get adder.
And if you ask for the thing, you look in the dictionary
and you traverse the thing.
But with that in mind,
what I thought was really nice about this
is you had pretty decent autocomplete
in your embedded Python editor.
How'd you pull that off?
- Good that you noticed.
Yeah, we spent a lot of time on it.
- I bet you did.
- Yeah, so.
- Yeah, how'd that work?
How's that work?
- Yeah, so when we were designing this,
we were thinking, damn, VS Code is really nice, right?
You have all the plugins,
all the autocomplete and everything.
But we had two choices, right?
Either we build this whole UI builder into VS Code,
or we kind of take some of the things
that make VS Code great
and then bring it into the job-based studio.
So we don't know sort of the final,
eventually where this will be,
but the current version of this is we thought,
you know what, I think we need to give users an editor,
like a built-in editor, so they can just quickly,
they can have the best experience building the app
and the access to UI and context and state really quickly.
And so, yeah, so we just did it that way,
where we added in LSP, so like a language server.
And so anytime you type code in your Python function,
it's basically over a WebSocket connection,
basically streaming the code changes
and saving them in your file system.
That's the only way we can do this,
this like object-oriented Python dot notation access.
And so we need to have access to all the files.
And so we set this up so that not only
you can do autocomplete,
but also that we can actually do the state and context
approach to the web framework.
And it was a bit complicated
because we hadn't been really exposed to LSPs before.
And so we had to learn how to use LSPs
and we had to sort of hijack sort of the,
sort of the WebSocket connection in a way,
so like we intercept the code
and then we save it in your file system.
So we had to customize it a little bit to do this.
And it's really nice because now you can do autocomplete
for all your files.
And it's just a neat, it's so hard to develop now,
we're so used to these tools.
And now with things like Copilot,
like we're used to even more than just autocomplete, right?
It's like autocomplete the function,
not just the variable, right?
- Yeah, absolutely.
Well, it's certain,
I feel like autocomplete is just table stakes,
especially in this kind of thing.
There's somebody who's just done Python forever
and they're just, they'd rather get it out of the way.
And it's fine.
It's not my way of working, but it's fine for people
who wanna do that.
- Yeah, if you're working with somebody
who might not be a full-time developer,
but they wanna use your framework,
your service to build some app, right?
It seems like this could really empower them.
But if you give them something with zero autocomplete,
zero highlighting,
they're gonna be having a rough time, you know?
- Yeah, I mean, even for a more experienced developer,
I think it's still a hard time.
- Yeah, even if you can do it,
it's just less productive to go like, oh yeah.
- Way less productive.
- Yeah, way less productive.
In general, I'm somewhat,
I think AI gets added to apps a lot
just to kind of check a box,
but the result of it is not that great.
Think of my email client that has AI integrated,
but it almost always seems like, well, that's not something.
Yeah, that's something I wanna read.
Like, I don't really wanna read that.
And I don't need to summarize it.
That's emails, you know?
Just seems like a lot of energy goes into it
when it's not that big of a value,
but maybe something like Copilot could be here.
- Yeah, so this is something we've talked about,
me and my co-founder.
So one of the things that we didn't get to cover,
because we're not gonna go through all the demos,
but the way that we render data in these tables
is we basically format it as a pandas data frame.
- Okay.
- Okay, so what that means is that,
let's say that you query data from Stripe, right?
Like you get all your customers from Stripe.
Stripe is not gonna return a data frame for you.
It's gonna return like an object, right?
Dictionary.
And then you basically have to take that dictionary
and then basically convert it into a data frame.
And then we automatically know
how to render everything else from there.
So we've thought about this in like,
wouldn't it be cool if as soon as you get the response
from an endpoints, let's say as a JSON dictionary,
that we suggest that we can just take it
that next step for you,
which is just to like convert it into a data frame.
And then you wouldn't have to hustle with it.
- Yeah.
- And so we've done that,
but in theory that sounds very, very helpful.
If you're proficient in pandas and using data frames,
it's actually not that hard.
It's a very quick thing for you.
But if you just know Python,
but not exposed to the whole data frame ecosystem,
then maybe it would be really nice if you just said,
okay, we just turned it to data frame for you.
And then that's all you have to care about.
So we've thought about this.
We haven't added this yet.
- I think it's fine without,
but it's kind of one of those things like you're in there
and you've got these data sources
and maybe you're not super familiar with them.
Maybe you could pull them together somehow.
- Oh yeah.
So yeah, like, so one of the things
that I find myself struggling with is,
let's say I want to build a demo
and let's say I haven't been exposed to like
the SendGrid API or the HubSpot API,
then I have to go to their documentation to figure out,
how do I, you know, what's the package name
so I can install it?
How do I authenticate in?
How do I call a few endpoints to do what I need to do?
And I think in that case where it's like,
it's not about your knowledge of Python.
It really is about your knowledge of this other thing
that you're using.
In those cases, it seems that it could be extremely helpful
for someone to build apps very quickly
if they somehow had access to either a quick documentation
or it just suggested what you might want to do.
- Yeah, that's kind of what I was thinking as well.
So speaking of that sort of external resources,
you've got this Python function.
What can I put in there?
Can I use external packages?
Can I call out on the network to talk to some API endpoints?
Can I spin up threads?
Like what can I do?
How much Python can I do there?
- Pretty much all of the above.
So I'll elaborate what I mean by that.
So the standard way that you would connect
to some of these services, these third-party services,
is you'll make like an HTTP request,
like get request, post request.
So you can just like import requests,
basically pip install requests,
and then just do it over the standard Python,
basically Python package.
Now, it is way more convenient when you use an SDK
provided by one of these third parties.
So if you want to use Stripe,
if you're able to just import Stripe,
it'll make your life a lot easier.
- Oh yeah.
- Very nicely, Pythonic, everything's set up.
So you can, in DropBase, you can install anything
that you can install via PyPI.
So you just, we have a file called custom requirements.
And if you just list them out,
when you set up DropBase,
we'll basically install those for you.
And then when you write a function,
you can just basically import Stripe directly
into function without pip installing it again,
and then you just use it.
And so that's really nice, basically anything.
I think you were doing a previous UV, you were talking--
- Yeah, yeah, I was talking to Charlie Marsh
about UV earlier today, yeah.
- We haven't looked into it yet,
but anything you can pip install from PyPI,
you can install in DropBase,
which makes it really, really powerful.
Then there's a database connections.
So you can, I mean, you could use SQLAlchemy
or you can import whatever else you want,
but we make those a bit more native
because we know that you're gonna connect to databases.
So we wanna make it a bit more convenient.
- And your tables need sort of direct access to it
as well, right?
Not just the output of some access to the database,
but you've got to figure out the columns
and all that kind of stuff, right?
- That's right, yeah, that's correct.
So we created a little library,
like a utility slash helper
that lets you perform database operations very quickly.
So if you've added your database credentials
to the .env file, then you can quickly perform
like a select statement or make an update
to that database via functions,
but without the standard thing where you do,
if you use SQLAlchemy, for example,
where you like start a session, start a connection,
you know, like all those steps,
we kind of abstract that for you,
but you can totally use SQLAlchemy in its full glory
if that's what you're used to.
- Nice, can I write Python files,
like separate Python scripts and stuff,
and then just import and call them from there?
Or does it have to be in the UI?
- That's totally, yeah, totally, totally.
Yeah, this is actually one of the biggest advantages
of DropBase is that if you have like a Python script
lying around and you want to sort of use it in DropBase,
you can add it to that file system
somewhere in the workspace directory,
and you can just import it in via your function.
So you just like, from your file,
you can import a specific function in that file,
for example.
And so the implication of this is that
you can set up DropBase in a way that it just lives
in your existing Python code base.
So imagine you already, you know,
you've set up your company,
you've got product market fit, you know,
things are running, right?
And you have a Python backend,
and now you're starting to scale
and you need to build tools.
So your first option would be to do all custom, obviously.
The second option is to use some sort of tools builder,
but every single action you take is done over
an HTTP request with authentication, with everything.
So it's just like a standard internet communication, right?
But if you wanted to just interact with an existing
functions or internal endpoints,
then you'd have to either set up an RPC server,
or you might want to use some other way to get in there,
right?
With DropBase, you basically just set up DropBase
in the same directory as your app,
and you can then import selectively what functions you need.
It's sort of like a window into your code base
that is like a plugin to that code base
where you can now expand and build a lot of internal tools
that leverages everything that you've already built.
- Yeah, so--
- Oh, that's today, by the way, yeah.
- Yeah, so when you've got,
yeah, there's the requirements that custom, right?
So you've got your Docker compose file.
I mean, could you set it up just so as you build,
maybe even better, just set up a volume
so that it can directly find,
I mean, I guess that's what you're kind of showing
right here, right?
Is that you can--
- Yeah, we're mounting the volume.
- Mount the volume just directly into,
say, your Git repo for your big project code,
and then you can just start importing that
and doing stuff with it, right?
- Something that, we still need to do some tweaks
because of relative paths,
but the idea is that you can do that
with a little bit of customization.
But yeah, our workspace server, basically,
you mount files or directories,
and then we can look into those to execute.
- Yeah, manage those files with Git or something like that.
- So a good example of this is,
are you familiar with Django and Django admin?
Not super, it's something I do every day,
but I'm aware, sure.
- Right, so Django, it's a great web framework.
It's used by a lot of companies.
It's like, if you want to build web apps,
you have Django, it comes with a lot of stuff, right?
And there's this thing called Django admin
that basically automatically generates admin panels for you
based on your Django models.
And so if you have a model for a book, right,
and the book has authors,
it basically exposes that to the Django admin,
and then now you can edit a book
without really doing anything.
Like, it all kind of comes for free.
Like, it's pretty neat.
- I think that's like half the appeal of Django right there.
- It is, yeah.
- I think a lot of people use it for that.
Yeah, they're like, "I don't want to write that stuff.
I'm using Django."
Yeah, for real.
- Right, and it's great.
Now, at some point,
when your company hits a certain milestone
or is a certain number of customers,
you will need to customize those admin panels.
You might need to create admin panels
for things that maybe you don't have models for yet,
or for things that combine data from your database
with data from like Stripe or some other source.
And so what we see when we talk to these people
is that they kind of struggle to like,
either do I like keep using this,
or do I like completely rebuild everything, right?
And so for those users,
when we talk to them about DropBase,
they get very excited because with DropBase,
you can install Django,
and it can sit in your file system.
And so essentially all the models
that you've already built in Django,
you can basically call them via DropBase,
with DropBase function,
'cause it's all Python, right?
- Yeah.
- And so it gives you this like, okay,
Django admins are great up to a certain point,
and then after that, what happens, right?
Like you might not wanna rebuild everything
just so you can have internal tooling.
And so I think that's quite of a nice spot for us to say,
look, DropBase can live in your code base,
uses everything you already have,
but it gives you some extra things
if you want to build internal tools very quickly.
So that's something we're obviously very, very excited about.
- Yeah, that's really cool.
I like that aspect of it.
So when we talk about this code,
I guess there's two scenarios,
the cloud version or the self-hosted version,
but where and how does this Python run?
Is it, it must be full CPython,
is it running in isolated Docker containers,
or in your cloud, what happens?
Is it functions like AWS functions, Lambda?
- So this is just runs either on your local machine,
if you've set it up as a developer,
it's all running there, obviously,
if you turn off your machine, you can't use your apps.
And then if you set it up in a production instance,
let's say you deploy this on an EC2, right?
So your Python functions are running on that EC2,
but it's running via a Docker container inside.
So-- - Okay.
So it gets a little isolation, a little bit of protection,
that kind of stuff. - That's right.
But yeah, and we're assuming that,
I mean, you're building these apps
to run on your own infrastructure,
is that you would, that you know what you're doing.
So this is as opposed to us having a full cloud version,
where all customers run untrusted code
in the same sort of backend system,
which would be obviously very dangerous,
'cause I'm sure there's ways a customer can somehow,
you know, go through the back
and then access other customers' untrusted code.
And that would be a nightmare.
And so, you know, we have isolation.
First layer is, well, it's in your infrastructure,
you're gonna do, it's just your company's code.
But then further, you know, we run Python in containers
in that instance. - Yeah.
But that sounds more like a durability thing than anything.
I mean, it is also for isolation protection,
but first and foremost,
just don't let bad Python code take down the whole thing,
you know? (laughs)
- That's right, yeah. - Yeah.
- Hopefully there's a,
so the way we recommend people using Dropbox
or setting up their dev sort of process with Dropbase
is that they would clone,
that's like basically fork the, fork Dropbase,
and then they will develop locally.
They will test changes,
and once they're happy with the new code,
you know, they'll push it back,
and then they will have CI/CD into the production instance.
And then they can version control everything.
So that also gives you that extra layer of,
okay, let's make sure that whatever we're pushing is tested.
You can always add test databases
that you develop locally with
before you push to production,
where it's gonna have to act on your production data.
- Yeah, that's pretty interesting.
I like the version control aspect of it.
That gives it a much nicer touch to, you know,
connection to real software,
rather than just it's a text input area in an app
that who knows what happens. - That's right.
I think as developers,
it sometimes feels a bit scary, right?
Like you're building something,
and it's in this other framework, in this other cloud,
and it just feels like you can't kind of get,
like if the thing goes away,
like you can't even see your previous code.
And so that's sort of the,
that was another key concept that we wanted to have
is in this tool that it feels friendly for developers,
that it matches your mental models,
and your sort of like your development process,
let's call it, like how you're used to making apps
or developing code,
that we keep that feeling
when you're building apps with DropBase.
- Right, I wanna maybe have a PR
to understand if we accept this change to it, right?
- That's right.
- Yeah, you don't normally hear that kind of stuff
around these kinds of tools, you know?
- No, and if you do, I think it tends to be like,
yeah, okay, it's like a huge enterprise contract,
you know, pay us $50,000 a year,
and then you get version control,
which to me, it sounds, it sounds scary.
I mean, it just,
it will make me a little bit less comfortable.
Now, obviously, if I'm a big company,
and I just really need the tool,
sure, maybe I'll just pay for it,
and I get version control,
but you know, getting version control,
it just feels so like,
like table stakes for developers,
especially today, that, yeah,
it just wouldn't make sense otherwise for us.
I mean, it's the way we're approaching this product.
- Yeah, well, the other aspect is,
you know, what are you version controlling?
You know, do you end up with, you know,
something like effectively a Jupyter notebook,
like big blob of something,
and then there's an older blob of something,
and then you diff it, you're like, what is this?
But since you end up with just these, you know,
your workspace files that just live there, right?
It's a real, you know, optimized,
like show me the changes, show me what's happened here.
- Yeah, it all lives there,
including the component properties.
Like we don't store this in like a separate database
or anything like that.
So like, you know, like for some of the tools,
they will store all the components in their database.
- Yeah.
- And so what they do is, you know,
when you load up their tools, like their tools builder,
it'll fetch all the components from the provider's database,
combine it with maybe your custom code,
and then it'll do it.
And so even that feels like, okay,
but where's like config for my components?
- Yeah.
Yeah, where'd this button come from?
Why is it gone?
- Yeah, that's tough.
Yeah, that's tough.
And then like, imagine if you wanted to like share apps,
or, you know, it's just like version control
makes a bit less sense.
I mean, you're just version controlling
just like the individual functions,
maybe like some custom part of the code that you write,
which is still useful,
but it still feels like you don't have the full picture
of what's happening.
- Yeah, you don't have a full record.
It could easily get out of sync.
- Yeah, same here.
- Yeah.
- Quite interesting.
So I guess one thing we touched on a little bit
before I press go here in the show,
you said that at one point you were considering
using Jupyter and this whole mechanism.
Yeah, what's the story around that?
- Yeah, so we love Jupyter.
We love notebooks and we love the experience of them,
the sense that you can write some code
and you can quickly test and execute the code
without basically without needing to write anything else.
So for prototyping, for getting quick feedback, it's great.
And we wanted to give our developers something like that
because when you build these apps,
you're kind of iterating, right?
You're like, you're testing it.
A lot of the times you don't even know the documentation
for Stripe or Hotspot.
And so like, there's a lot of experimentation.
And so we wanted a quick way to do that.
So we considered maybe having something
like a Jupyter kernel within DropBase,
that allowed people to do it.
Now, there were some issues with it,
is in the sense that the kernel actually stores results
from like previous blocks.
And sometimes that gets in the way
of you triggering an action in a later block.
And so we were like, okay,
maybe that's a little bit more than we need.
- Yeah, it's not quite the same.
- Eventually we want something like that.
- Yeah, so we hacked it in a way.
Like, so the way that we do it is,
you can write a Python function.
You basically get one block.
You can write a Python function
and you can click on a play button
to basically run that function,
but it's not like a kernel.
So what we do is behind the scenes,
we have like a main function.
And when you trigger that function,
we take the state from the client.
So whatever you've selected or input it,
we take the underlying file for your Python function,
and then we call it from me.
And so we kind of simulate that experience
of like instantly testing code that you just wrote,
but there is no Jupyter kernel behind the scenes.
And then you can only do one block at a time.
And so, we said, okay, for now,
as we're getting started with it, it's good enough.
You can write your functions,
you can run and test them immediately,
which is really nice.
You can't do this with VS Code, by the way,
like you would have to open up the terminal
and then basically run your function.
And so we still wanted this feature where you can click
and just see your outputs
and basically debug and troubleshoot,
but it'd be really nice if we get out multiple blocks
and you can just build functions that way.
So maybe for the future, yeah.
- Okay, interesting.
- Did you say that you were a core developer
for Jupyter?
- No, no, I just spoke to them.
It sounds fun, but no, I interviewed a whole bunch
of them recently and what I thought was interesting
is Jupyter is such an empowering thing
for Python developers,
but many of the core developers are so focused
on writing JavaScript and TypeScript
to sort of make these interactions possible
so that the rest of us don't have to write JavaScript
and that kind of stuff.
- So I think we're getting about to the end of our time here.
I'm sure that actually this is somewhat similar.
It's really a dynamic interactive web app.
And in that case, it probably has to have some interesting
front-end JavaScript stuff going on.
What's the JavaScript story?
- Yeah.
- What framework you use and stuff like that.
- Yeah, we use React to build our components.
Obviously we abstract that away
so that you as a Python developer,
you're just writing Python.
Well, you're writing SQL as well,
but let's call that Python.
And then we deal with the components for you.
And so it's not the kind of framework
where you're writing Python and like we're generating
like HTMLX or something like that.
So obviously we understand React
and we know we can build some beautiful components,
customize them with it.
And so, we weren't about to create
a completely new framework where we somehow
just generate HTML from Python.
I think there's a few people working on that actually.
But we already know React,
so let's just build those components
or customize those components
and then just let people declare them
and then sort of access and modify them
via the context objects in your Python functions.
So our stack, we use FastAPI for our backend,
which is great.
I'm not sure if you've had the creator here on--
- Yeah, I've had Sebastian on--
- Sebastian, right?
- I think at least three times, Sebastian Ramirez.
- Yeah, he's great.
He's great. - Yeah, he's really great.
And FastAPI is fantastic.
So yeah, we use them.
We use React on our client side
and we are a lot of our infrastructure is on AWS.
- Okay, yeah, sounds really interesting.
Sounds like a fun app to work on.
- Yeah, you should play around with it.
I can help you build some apps
to manage your podcast library.
- Nice, awesome.
All right, well, Jimmy,
I think we are pretty much out of time.
Final thought for people listening,
maybe they're excited to try this out.
What are you telling them?
- Yeah, just go to dropbase.io and sign up
for a free account.
It's free for developers.
You can set it up locally.
If you have any issues setting it up, just reach out.
I'll personally help you get it up and running.
And yeah, you can look at the documentation
for everything else.
- Yeah. - That's about it.
Try it, give us some feedback.
We'd love to hear from you.
- Awesome.
Congrats on building a cool project for people
and yeah, good luck with it.
- Thanks, Michael.
- Yeah, you bet, bye.